Ollie's blog post (#2)
paImer/notes: markdown-guide.md

### Shopping list

\* Milk <br>
\* Sugar <br>
\* Apples <br>
Tab |---> \* The red kind

yields:

* Milk
* Sugar
* Apples
    * The red kind

## Ordered lists

How about numbering items? To start from 1, do exactly the same as for unordered lists, but replace \* with `1.`, or the number you wish to start from. Example:

### To-do list

`1.` Master Markdown<br>
`1.` Go shopping<br>

yields:

1. Master Markdown
1. Go shopping

## Inline code

Wrap your code with a single pair of back quotes ( \` ) for single lines (find this below Esc on a standard PC US/UK keyboard). For multiple lines, use a pair of three back quotes ( \``` )

\`1 + 2 + 3 = 6\`<br>
→<br>
`1 + 2 + 3 = 6`

and

\```<br>
If I knew how to code,<br>
this is where I would write it.<br>
\```<br>
→
```
If I knew how to code,
this is where I would write it.
```

## In-file images

This is similar to embedding hyperlinks. The general format is:

\!\[Image name for your reference](http://`...`/image.png)<br>

→

![Markdown Logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/48/Markdown-mark.svg/320px-Markdown-mark.svg.png)

Splendid!

> # GitHub-flavoured Markdown (GFM)

Author: Abbreviations should generally be avoided. Only use them if they're much more known than their expanded term. E.g. "API", "HTTP", and "FAQ" is OK, but "GFM" and "RTFM" is not.

If you are reading this, you're either part of a select number of individuals I have sent the source file to, or you're using GitHub.

GitHub has its own variant of Markdown. In addition to everything written above, there are a few extra tweaks you should be aware of.

## Language-specific code blocks

Add the language your code is in immediately after the initial set of back quotes for syntax highlighting. The majority of widely-used codes are supported.

\```python<br>
while True:<br>
TAB|---> print("Hello")<br>
\```<br>
→
```python
while True:
    print("Hello")
```

## Tables

When it comes to tables, \| and \- are your friends.

\|Header 1|Header 2|<br>
|--------|--------|<br>
|Item 1  |Item 3  |<br>
|Item 2  |Item 4  |

yields:

|Header 1|Header 2|
|--------|--------|
|Item 1  |Item 3  |
|Item 2  |Item 4  |

N.B. The formatting restrictions here are quite loose. As long as each column begins with, ends with, contains the correct number of \|, and the row below the header contains nothing but \-, Markdown will know what to do.

## Creating task lists

> In GitHub, you can create task lists in the following way:

Author: ```suggestion
In GitHub, you can create checklists in the following way:
```

\* \[x] Task 1<br>
\* \[x] Task 2<br>
\* \[ ] Task 3

> yielding:

Author: 懐かしい！Not an issue - I just haven't seen this word since I last did 'proper' maths.

# What is Markdown?

Often used to format readme files and creating rich text using a plain text editor, Markdown is a lightweight markup language that was created in 2004. 

Unlike HTML, Markdown does not use tags. What you see is what you get, with no surprises.

# Why use Markdown?

Markdown is a popular tool on the popular software development website [GitHub](https://github.com). Simply create a file called `filename.md` in Markdown to view your document in rich text format. 

In addition to the reasons mentioned above, Markdown also offer allows you to *easily* create the following:

> * Headings

Author: I think it might be more common using `-`s instead of `*`. Same for checkboxes below. They both work, but programmers strive to be lazy, and `-` is one key press, and `*` is two (shift + 8).

* Blockquotes

# How to use Markdown

For headings and subheadings, use `#`, and multiples of `#` thereof.

For example:

`#` This is a heading

`##` This is a smaller heading

yields:

# This is a heading
## This is a smaller heading

and so on.

## Italics

Choice comes into play - wrap the text you wish to italicize in `*` or `_` 

`*This text* is in italics` → *This text* is in italics

## Bold (Strong)

Wrap the text you wish to embolden with `**` or `__` (two of each)

`How very **bold** of you!` → How very **bold** of you!

## Strikethrough

You may have noticed a pattern at this point. Wrap the text you wish to change with certain characters to make specific changes. For the strikethrough, use `~~`

`This is my ~~first~~ ~~second~~ third draft` → 

This is my ~~first~~ ~~second~~ third draft

## Multiple simultaneous formatting options

Multiple commands can be used simultaneously!

`~~__*I N C E P T I O N*__~~`

~~__*I N C E P T I O N*__~~

## Separators

To place a horizontal line underneath a block of text to keep your content separate, simply input `---` or `___` (three of each) on a line below your text.

`---` yields:

---

## The escape character

> The escape character nullifies the effects of the character(s) immediately following it.

Author: This section is a bit sparse, don't you think? 😉

## Blockquotes

If you wish to add a quote, or simply want to make a statement or phrase "pop", add a `>` before the text. This applies to everything on the same line.

`> This is a quote`

> No, this is a quote!

## Hyperlinks

Linking to webpages is simple in Markdown, and takes the following format:

Click `[here](https://github.com/paImer "paImer's GitHub")` for an abundance of well-written, snappy code 

→ Click [here](https://github.com/paImer "paImer's GitHub") for an abundance of well-written, snappy code 

N.B. The quotations simply add a title to the link and are optional. Hover your mouse over the link to see the effect in action.

## Unordered lists

To create an unordered list (bullet points), precede each item with `*`. Create a nested item with indentation + `*`

### Shopping list

```
* Milk
* Sugar
* Apples

> Indentation |---> * The red kind

Author: Don't print the word indentation etc. Just add 4 spaces.

```

yields:

* Milk
* Sugar
* Apples
    * The red kind

## Ordered lists

How about numbering items? To start a list from 1, do exactly the same as for unordered lists, but replace _all_ the `*` with `1.`. To start from a number other than one, have this as your first number, then simply put `1.` for each item following it.

### To-do list

```
1. Master Markdown
1. Go shopping
```

yields:

1. Master Markdown
1. Go shopping

### Starting from a number other than 1.

```
300. Item #300
1. Item #301
1. Item #302
```

yields:

300. Item #300
1. Item #301
1. Item #302

> Automatic numbering is really rather useful, _particularly_ when deleting items from your list. Imagine having an ordered list of 1000 items, and realising you don't need the first item anymore...

Author: Maybe clarify a bit more why that would be annoying:

(...) ordered list of 1000 items written
```
1. ...
2. ...
...
1000. ...
```

For nested lists (use indentation), `1.` will convert to a different ordered index character, namely `i, ii, iii, ...`, then `a, b, c, ...` for each sub-list after that.

```
1. This
   1. Is
      1. A
         1. Nested
            1. List
```

→

1. This
   1. Is
      1. A
         1. Nested
            1. List

## Inline code

> Wrap your code with a single pair of back quotes ( \` ) for single lines. For multiple lines, use a pair of three back quotes ( \``` )

Author: I think backtick is the more common term

\`1 + 2 + 3 = 6\`

→

`1 + 2 + 3 = 6`

and

\```
If I knew how to code,
this is where I would write it.
\```

→

```
If I knew how to code,
this is where I would write it.
```

## In-file images

This is similar to embedding hyperlinks. The general format is:

`![Image name for your reference](https://`...`/image.png)`

→

![Markdown Logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/48/Markdown-mark.svg/320px-Markdown-mark.svg.png)

Splendid!

# GitHub-flavoured Markdown

> If you are reading this, you're either part of a select number of individuals I have sent the source file to, or you're using GitHub.

Author: That may not be accurate in the future so let's get rid of this line

GitHub has its own variant of Markdown. In addition to everything written above, there are a few extra tweaks you should be aware of.

## Language-specific code blocks

Add the language your code is in immediately after the initial set of back quotes for syntax highlighting. The majority of widely-used codes are supported.

> \```python

Author: Try and figure out how you can put these triple backticks in backticks. Something like:

````
```python
while True:
    print("I wish I was Ruby")
```
````

omg how did he do it? 😱 (try and see if you can figure out how I wrote this comment 😉 )
